fix: simplified the merge conflicts section (#232)
open-sauced/docs: docs/contributing/technical/resolve-merge-conflicts.md

  - "resolve merge conflicts"
---

When you are working on any of the OpenSauced repositories, you might run into a merge conflict. A merge conflict occurs when multiple conflicting changes are made to the same line in a file. Merge conflicts happen the most when you open a pull request, as the release process generally updates `npm-shrinkwrap.json`.

In this guide, we will talk about how to resolve merge conflicts and how to keep your branch up to date.

## How to Check for Merge Conflicts Locally

If you are actively working on a change to an OpenSauced repository, you can check for potential merge conflicts by running a few commands in the terminal.

1. Make sure you are on the correct branch where the changes are being made

```bash
cd app
git checkout <your-branch>
```

2. Fetch the latest changes from the OpenSauced main repository.

```bash

> git fetch upstream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git fetch origin
```

```

3. See the differences between your branch and the OpenSauced main branch

```bash

> git diff <your-branch> upstream/main

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git diff <your-branch> origin/main
```

```

**NOTE**: Some of the OpenSauced repositories will use `main` for the main branch while others like the [app repository](https://github.com/open-sauced/app), will use `beta` for the main branch name.

![git diff output review conflicts](../../../static/img/contributing-resolve-merge-conflicts-review-conflicts.png)

**NOTE**: If you have already opened up a pull request, then you can see if there is a conflict at the bottom of the PR. Even though it is possible to resolve conflicts through GitHub, it is best practice to resolve them locally.

![merge conflicts git message](../../../static/img/contributing-resolve-merge-conflicts-dont-do.png)

## How to Resolve Merge Conflicts

If you have merge conflicts, it is best to use a text editor to resolve them. Identify the conflicting files and open them up in your editor of choice. For the conflicting sections, you have an option to either keep the incoming changes, keep your changes or keep both sets of changes. The conflicting sections will be marked with `<<<<<<<`, `=======`, and `>>>>>>>` symbols.

> Here is a [guide](https://dev.to/adiatiayu/how-to-resolve-merge-conflicts-using-the-merge-editor-feature-on-vs-code-pic) for an in depth walkthrough of the process. Once you have resolved all of the conflicts, then you can stage, commit and push your changes to your branch.

Reviewer: Thanks for considering using my blog here! 🥰
But let's use @BekahHW's [post](https://dev.to/opensauced/keeping-your-branch-up-to-date-and-handling-merge-conflicts-while-waiting-for-pr-reviews-3b3h) as it's under OpenSauced's blog. 😊

```bash
git status
git add .
git commit -m "fix: resolving merge conflicts"
git push
```

> ## How to Keep Your Branch Updated

Reviewer: I think it makes more sense to move this section up as the first subsection because folks need to update their branch first before resolving conflicts.
What do you think?

It is common for your branch to fall behind the main repository's branch. So it is important to keep it up to date as you are contributing.

### Using GitHub

To update your branch on GitHub, you can go to your forked copy of the project and click on `Sync fork` and then the `Update branch` button.

![syncing your branch on GitHub](../../../static/img/sync-branch-GH.png)

### Using Git

To update your branch using Git and the terminal, you can use the following command:

```bash

> git pull upstream <main-branch-name>

Reviewer: I don't think we can we pull changes from `upstream` when we haven't add the remote locally. Or maybe I'm wrong?

So, we can do either:

- Add an instruction to add `upstream` locally.
OR
- Because a screenshot for updating `origin` repo is provided here, and that folks will automatically have `origin` after they clone the repo locally, we might want to change this to `origin`. This also applies to the rest of the suggestions if we choose this option.

```suggestion
git pull origin <main-branch-name>
```

Author: > I don't think we can we pull changes from upstream when we haven't add the remote locally. But I could be wrong.

I had assumed they already did that before reaching this guide. But we can add back in the instructions for adding the upstream locally 👍

```

**NOTE**: Some of the OpenSauced repositories will use `main` for the main branch while others like the [app repository](https://github.com/open-sauced/app), will use `beta` for the main branch name.

## Reviewing Your Pull Request

> Once you have pushed up your changes, you can create a pull request. Under the files changed tab, you will see all of the recent changes including all conflicts resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have pushed up your changes, you can review them in your pull request. Under the files changed tab, you will see all of the recent changes including all conflicts resolved.
```
